---
type: project
title: R5
description: A prototype for a front-end framework using Ramda, React, Redux, RxJS, and Recompose.
author-email: jayzawrotny@gmail.com
location: New York, USA
date-created: 2019-01-27T12:12:00-5:00
date-modified: 2019-01-27T12:12:00-5:00
date-published: 2018-07-28T22:11:00-5:00
in-language: en
uuid: 0b666937-5e20-42c4-b92c-5458b254e1bd
draft: true
bg: "#ff6e6c"
fg: "#f0ffd9"
github: eccentric-j/r5
website:
languages:
 - js
---
# <span class="project__goal">Goal</span>

After working for a few years with React, Angular and Vue I wanted a better functional programming focused front-end experience. A lot of the popular libraries have complex abstractions that are hidden away as separate modules. Routing for instance is typically a separate npm module and has a crazy amount of code to handle history management, configuration, view management, and caching. I was curious what it would be like to use functional programming and a data-driven approach to build a framework that works in a more templated manner. For instance the router in R5 is very simple and should cover a wide range of use cases, it is built as function that takes a url string and returns a stream of objects that have view and param information. The resulting list can easily be diffed, read, and processed in the render phase using a regular react\\redux approach.

With a more templated approach it means key infrastructure has a smaller footprint and more transparency. This way if you don&rsquo;t like the router it comes with you can hack it to your liking, remove it, or replace it because it&rsquo;s all just regular JS project code no more than a few dozen lines to work with.

I chose React because it&rsquo;s the only view library that lets you implement vanilla functions that return views. When you can express a view as a function of state that forms a very powerful abstraction. You can use existing iteration and higher-order-function based libraries or functions to render your views and keep them in sync with your app state in a very concise and deterministic way.

Sadly I haven&rsquo;t fleshed this project out to where I&rsquo;m comfortable releasing it yet but I do want to revisit this project. While I don&rsquo;t expect this project to catch on I do think it could serve as a good blue-print for a really powerful front-end functional programming framework. Additionally, I feel this project is my love-letter to functional programming in JS as I move towards a Clojure only environment.

## <span class="project__process">Process</span>
1. Research and try the biggest frameworks today
2. Find areas that can be improved: I.E. Reducing Redux Boilerplate or managing async effects in a data-oriented way
3. Debated a templated approach vs. npm library approach
4. Created a basic todo example
5. Wrote some unit tests

## <span class="project__discoveries">Discoveries</span>
1. React, Redux, Ramda, RxJS, and Recompose are a really powerful functional programming toolkit.
2. I started this framework before I regularly used Clojure and it turns out a lot of libraries like Luminus and Re-Frame took the same path I did for choosing lighter weight pieces that manipulate state data over time resulting in very simple machinery.
3. This is a project I have really enjoyed working on and would love to pick it up again.
