---
title: Idle Parens Blog Launch
description: A brief introduction to this blog, development process, and goals.
author: Jay Zawrotny
author-email: jayzawrotny@gmail.com
author-url: https://eccentric-j.com
author-github: eccentric-j
author-twitter:
location: New York, USA
date-created: 2013-12-27
date-modified: 2013-12-30
date-published: 2019-01-18T18:20:33.948Z
headline:
in-language: en
keywords: a,b,c
canonical-url: http://blog.hashobject.com/celebrare-gutture
uuid:
tags:
 - lorem
 - ipsum
draft: true
---
# Why even make a blog in 2019?

I have a habit of writing lengthy Reddit comments in a few functional programming subreddits. Every once in a while someone requests I publish the lengthy comments as an article somewhere, now I have a somewhere to publish.

# What will this blog cover?

I aim to focus on functional programming. While I'll be sharing my experience on many different languages like JavaScript, Elixir, Haskell, and Elm I will be primarily focusing on Clojure and ClojureScript as I enjoy working with those the most so far.

Some articles will cover personal experience since learning functional programming, some will be learning resources, some will document recently released projects, and sometimes I may want to explain my opinion on a specific development concept or strategy. Occasionally I may highlight an interesting project from a contact or community peer.


# What other types of posts will there be?

There may be some announcements related to my day job or request for applications for open development positions. Every once in a while there may be a more personal post to document and share a new experience, much like this one, but my goal is to keep it brief. I respect there are more interesting resources out there for you than this site and your time is valuable.

# What is this blog made with?

This site is statically generated using the Clojure https://perun.io/ which runs on top of [Boot](https://github.com/boot-clj) build tasks. I really like the concept of breaking the generation process into a pipeline of reusable tasks or functions that generate each type of page and process my source files like ClojureScript, SASS, and Markdown. If I don't like the way any one part behaves I can replace it pretty painlessly leveraging Boot's composability and immutable fileset system.

For example the production build pipeline looks like this:

```clj
(deftask build
  "Build the blog source and output to target/public"
  [e build-env BUILD-ENV kw    "Environment keyword like :dev or :production"]
  (let [prod? (= build-env :prod)]
   (pipeline
     (generate-site :prod? prod?)
     (seo-files prod?)
     (cljs :ids ["prod"])
     (sass :output-style :compressed :source-map false)
     (clean :exclude [#".git"])
     (target :no-clean true)
     (notify))))
```



# Are you really _eccentric_?

No. Probably not. The moniker came from an internal dialogue that went something like, "It's not that you're weird or incredibly awkward, you're just... uh... eccentric." It felt like a nice word to embody my love of programming, cats, atmospheric black metal, skulls, and occult imagery.
